# <a href="https://leetcode.com/problems/permutations/">46. Permutations</a>
## Let's try to understand how the next permutation algorithm work :

# Java Code Using similer approach :
```
public class Solution {
    public List<List<Integer>> permute(int[] nums) {
        List<List<Integer>> ans = new ArrayList<>();
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        ans.add(convertArrayToList(nums));

        while (nextPermutation(nums)) {
            ans.add(convertArrayToList(nums));
        }

        return ans;
    }

    private List<Integer> convertArrayToList(int[] arr) {
        List<Integer> list = new ArrayList<>();
        for (int num : arr) {
            list.add(num);
        }
        return list;
    }

    private boolean nextPermutation(int[] nums) {
        int i = nums.length - 2;
        while (i >= 0 && nums[i] >= nums[i + 1]) {
            i--;
        }

        if (i >= 0) {
            int j = nums.length - 1;
            while (j >= 0 && nums[i] >= nums[j]) {
                j--;
            }
            swap(nums, i, j);
        }

        reverse(nums, i + 1, nums.length - 1);
        return i >= 0;
    }

    private void swap(int[] nums, int i, int j) {
        int temp = nums[i];
        nums[i] = nums[j];
        nums[j] = temp;
    }

    private void reverse(int[] nums, int i, int j) {
        while (i < j) {
            swap(nums, i, j);
            i++;
            j--;
        }
    }
}
```

The nextPermutation method is used to find the next lexicographically greater permutation of the given array nums. It follows these steps:

+ Step 1: Find the first decreasing element in the array

Start from the end of the array and move towards the beginning.
Look for the first index i such that nums[i] < nums[i + 1].
If no such index is found, it means the array is in descending order, and there's no next permutation possible. Return false.

+ Step 2: Find the smallest element to the right of nums[i], but greater than nums[i]

Start from the end of the array and move towards the index i.
Look for the first index j such that nums[i] < nums[j].
Swap nums[i] and nums[j].

+ Step 3: Reverse the elements to the right of nums[i]

Reverse the elements in the array from index i + 1 to the end of the array.

+ Step 4: Return true, indicating that the next permutation has been found.

## we may have a question that why reversing after swapping ?
After swapping the elements in Step 2, the array nums will have the next permutation with the current element at index i correctly placed in its final position. However, the elements to the right of index i may not be in the correct order to form the lexicographically smallest permutation.

To illustrate this, let's take a look at an example:

Suppose we have an array nums with the current permutation as [1, 3, 5, 4, 2] and i = 1. In this case, nums[i] = 3. After finding the smallest element greater than nums[i] to the right, we swap them. The array will become [1, 4, 5, 3, 2].

Now, to form the lexicographically smallest permutation, we need to arrange the elements to the right of nums[i] in ascending order. In this case, the elements to the right are [5, 3, 2], and after reversing them, the array becomes [1, 4, 2, 3, 5], which is the lexicographically smallest permutation that can be formed from the elements to the right of nums[i].

In essence, by reversing the elements to the right of nums[i], we ensure that the array nums contains the next lexicographically greater permutation while keeping the left part of the array unchanged.

The reason for using the reverse operation is that the elements to the right of nums[i] are in descending order (because we found the smallest greater element to the right in Step 2). By reversing them, we transform them into ascending order, which is the smallest possible permutation for those elements. This guarantees that the new permutation is the lexicographically next one after the previous permutation.

After performing these steps, we get the next permutation of the array, and if the array is in descending order after Step 1, it means there's no next permutation possible, and we return false. Otherwise, we return true to indicate that the next permutation is found.

# C++ Code (Using next_permutation)
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> permute(vector<int>& nums) {
        vector<vector<int>>ans;
        sort(nums.begin(),nums.end());
        ans.push_back(nums);
        while(next_permutation(nums.begin(),nums.end()))
        {
            ans.push_back(nums);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```
# C++ Code (Using prev_permutation)
```
class Solution {
public:
    vector<vector<int>> permute(vector<int>& nums) {
        vector<vector<int>>ans;
        sort(nums.begin(),nums.end(),greater<int>());
        ans.push_back(nums);
        while(prev_permutation(nums.begin(),nums.end()))
        {
            ans.push_back(nums);
        }
        return ans;
    }
};
```